! Problem:

You want to perform a calculation that requires operations beyond the basic ones of addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentiation. For example, you need to evaluate a sine or cosine. 

! Solution:
 
Import the <<PythonModule math>> module, and use the functions that it provides. 
 
{{{
import math

angle = math.pi / 6
x = math.cos( angle )
y = math.sin( angle )
}}}
 
If you want to get results that are complex numbers, use the <<PythonModule cmath>> module. 
 
{{{
import cmath
result = cmath.sin( 1+3j )
}}}
 
''Discussion:'' 
 
Mathematical functions such as sine and cosine are contained in the <<PythonModule math>> module. The functions are identical to those defined by the C standard, since they're simply Python wrappers on top of those functions. The <<PythonModule math>> module also defines two constants: {{{pi}}}and {{{e}}}. 
 
The functions in <<PythonModule math>> always return floating point numbers, whether the input was an integer or a float. If a result would be a complex number ({{{math.sqrt(-1)}}}, the square root of -1, is the common example), this is considered an error and triggers an exception. To get complex numbers as answers, you need to use the <<PythonModule cmath>> module, which is similar (though not identical) to the <<PythonModule math>> module, and can handle complex parameters and results: 
 
{{{
>>> math.sqrt(-1)
Traceback (innermost last):
 File "<stdin>", line 1, in ?
OverflowError: math range error
>>> cmath.sqrt(-1)
1j
}}}
 
Here's a list of the functions contained in the <<PythonModule math>> module. The <<PythonModule cmath>> module defines analogous functions that operate on complex numbers. 
 

|!''Name''|!''Purpose''|
|{{{acos(x)}}}|Arc cosine of x|
|{{{asin(x)}}}|Arc sine of x|
|{{{atan(x)}}}|Arc tangent of x|
|{{{atan2(x,y)}}}|Arc tangent of {{{x/y}}}|
|{{{ceil(x)}}}|Ceiling of x; the largest integer equal to or greater than x|
|{{{cos(x)}}}|Cosine of x|
|{{{cosh(x)}}}|Hyperbolic cosine of x|
|{{{exp(x)}}}|e raised to the power of x|
|{{{fabs(x)}}}|Absolute value of x|
|{{{floor(x)}}}|Floor of x; the largest integer equal to or less than x|
|{{{fmod(x)}}}|x modulo y|
|{{{frexp(x)}}}|The matissa and exponent for x.|
|{{{hypot(x, y)}}}|Euclidean distance, {{{sqrt(x*x + y*y)}}}|
|{{{ldexp(x, i)}}}|{{{x * (2**i)}}}|
|{{{log(x)}}}|Natural logarithm of x|
|{{{log10(x)}}}|Base 10 logarithm of x|
|{{{modf(x)}}}|Return the fractional and integer parts of x|
|{{{pow(x, y)}}}|x raised to the power of y|
|{{{sin(x)}}}|Sine of x|
|{{{sinh(x)}}}|Hyperbolic sine of x|
|{{{sqrt(x)}}}|Square root of x|
|{{{tan(x)}}}|Tangent of x|
|{{{tanh(x)}}}|Hyperbolic tangent of x|

